src/data/projects/antslife.mdx, before:

---
title: An Ant's Life
stack: C# - Unity - Oculus VR - PS Move
link: an-ants-life
order: 1
img: "../../assets/images/featured/antsLifeVr.png"
category: project
---

## An Ants Life

https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2793107.2810264
An Ant’s Life (Oculus VR+PS Move)
An Ant’s Life is a storytelling world for Oculus Rift and PS Move that combines virtual reality with physical props to immerse players in the ant’s life.
ACM CHIPLAY has published our [extended abstract](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2793107.2810264)! 
This project was selected as a [CREATE 2015 Finalist](http://create-festival.com/awards) and invited to present 
at [ACM’s CHIPLAY London](http://chiplay.org/call-for-papers/student-game-design-competition/) 
and [Maker’s Faire Pittsburgh](https://nextpittsburgh.com/features/pittsburgh-maker-faire-coming-bigger-gutsier-ever/).
It was an [Adobe Design Achievement Awards 2015 Semifinalist](https://www.adobeawards.com/the-gallery?y=2015&liveproject=2015618)

<YouTube youTubeId="DPSRmGimHh0" />

#### Summary:

A single player journey where you lead your fellow ants to find food by steering your leaf. Enjoy the 2.5D perspective and art but don’t let too many of your buddies die from natural hazards

#### Goal:

Tell a compelling, meaningful interactive story where the guest has some ability to interact in order to bring the story to a fulfilling climax

#### Limitations:

3 weeks | 5 person team | C#, Unity3D

#### Contribution:

Implemented fluid group movement through autonomous AI steering. Manipulated PS Move’s rotational input to simulate natural steering. Implemented billboarding. Utilized Unity’s particle systems to simulate rolling fog and falling raindrops.

<br />

Commit message:

Format ants life experience into bullet points / categories

src/data/projects/antslife.mdx, after:

---
title: An Ant's Life
stack: C# - Unity - Oculus VR - PS Move
link: an-ants-life
order: 1
img: "../../assets/images/featured/antsLifeVr.png"
category: project
---
An Ant’s Life is a storytelling journey where you lead your fellow ants to find food by steering. 
It combines VR with physical props to immerse players in the ant’s life. 

<YouTube youTubeId="DPSRmGimHh0" />

#### Summary:

Given our scope and constraints, we developed this game to tell a compelling, meaningful interactive story with a well-defined climax and ending.
To take full advantage of the VR space:

- We went with an ant theme to portray an extreme sense of scale and size, providing a new perspective through VR 
- We opted for a 2.5D perspective to stand out amongst the crowd, allowing our artists to create the highest quality assets possible and providing players with a creative world to interact in
- Finally, we placed players in a slow, lazy-river-like experience to make controls/movement intuitive and natural to prevent motion-sickness.

#### Scope:

3 weeks | 5 person team | C#, Unity3D

#### My Contributions:

1. Manipulated PS Move’s rotational input to simulate natural steering
2. Implemented billboarding - always rotating 2D sprites to face the player (like in Paper Mario)
3. Implemented fluid group movement through autonomous AI steering 
4. Utilized Unity’s particle systems to simulate rolling fog and falling raindrops

#### Results:

1. Selected as [Adobe Design Achievement Awards 2015 Semifinalist](https://www.adobeawards.com/the-gallery?y=2015&liveproject=2015618)
2. ACM CHIPLAY published our [extended abstract](https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/2793107.2810264)! 
3. Selected as a [CREATE 2015 Finalist](http://create-festival.com/awards) 
4. Invited to present at [ACM’s CHIPLAY London](http://chiplay.org/call-for-papers/student-game-design-competition/) 
5. Invited to present at [Maker’s Faire Pittsburgh](https://nextpittsburgh.com/features/pittsburgh-maker-faire-coming-bigger-gutsier-ever/).

<br />
